README.md, before:

# vh-video-web

[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/hmctsreform/VirtualHearings/_apis/build/status/hmcts.vh-video-web?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/hmctsreform/VirtualHearings/_build/latest?definitionId=120&branchName=master)

[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=vh-video-web&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=vh-video-web)

## Updating client code via NSwag

The poject is utilising NSwag to auto-generate client code for the front-end.

### Updating the front end Angular client code

The configuration for the front end TypeScript can be found in 'VideoWeb/VideoWeb/ClientApp/api-ts.nswag'

- Install the NSwag CLI (at least version 12)
- Install Dotnet SDK 2.2
- Ensure the MVC application is running. This can be managed by either:
  - `dotnet run VideoWeb/VideoWeb/VideoWeb.csproj`
  - or via an IDE
- open a terminal at the folder containing the nswag file 'VideoWeb/VideoWeb/ClientApp'
- execute `nswag run`

The latest version of the client code can be found in 'src/app/services/clients/api-client.ts'

## Running code coverage

First ensure you are running a terminal in the VideoWeb directory of this repository and then run the following commands.

```bash
dotnet test --no-build VideoWeb.UnitTests/VideoWeb.UnitTests.csproj /p:CollectCoverage=true /p:CoverletOutputFormat="\"opencover,cobertura,json,lcov\"" /p:CoverletOutput=../Artifacts/Coverage/ /p:MergeWith='../Artifacts/Coverage/coverage.json' /p:Exclude="\"[VideoWeb]VideoWeb.ConfigureServicesExtensions,[VideoWeb]VideoWeb.Program,[VideoWeb]VideoWeb.Startup,[*]VideoWeb.Common.*,[*]VideoWeb.Extensions.*,[*]VideoWeb.Pages.*,[*]VideoWeb.Swagger.*,[*]VideoWeb.Views.*,[*]VideoWeb.UnitTests.*,[*]VideoWeb.Services.*,[*]Testing.Common.*\""

```

## Generate HTML Report

Under the unit test project directory

```bash
dotnet reportgenerator "-reports:../Artifacts/Coverage/coverage.opencover.xml" "-targetDir:../Artifacts/Coverage/Report" -reporttypes:HtmlInline_AzurePipelines
```

## Linting

Verify the source code passes linting. To quickly fix linting issues, execute the following command from the 'ClientApp' directory in a terminal

```bash
ng lint VideoWeb --fix
```

## Styling Client App

Verify the source code passes linting. To quickly fix linting issues, execute the following command from the 'ClientApp' directory in a terminal

```bash
npm install
npx prettier -c "src/app/**/*.ts"
npx prettier --write "src/app/**/*.ts"
```

### Applying Client App Styles

Use the command below to apply prettier after installation packages

```bash
npx prettier --write "src/app/**/*.ts"
```

## Running Tests with Code Coverage with VS Code

### Install Coverage Gutters

Install the extension : Coverage Gutters
Id: ryanluker.vscode-coverage-gutters

This extension will load covage files and display in real-time which lines are covered

### Run the Test task

Ensure you have a terminal with the current directory set to the same level as angular workspace.

```bash
npm run test
```

This will execute the angular tests files with the --code-coverage parameter. Once the coverage files have been produced, enable the watch command for Coverage Gutters.

### Branch name git hook will run on pre commit and control the standard for new branch name.

The branch name should start with: feature/VIH-XXXX-branchName (X - is digit).
If git version is less than 2.9 the pre-commit file from the .githooks folder need copy to local .git/hooks folder.
To change git hooks directory to directory under source control run (works only for git version 2.9 or greater) :
\$ git config core.hooksPath .githooks

## Commit message

The commit message will be validated by prepare-commit-msg hook.
The commit message format should start with : 'feature/VIH-XXXX : ' folowing by 8 or more characters description of commit, otherwise the warning message will be presented.

## Run Zap scan locally

To run Zap scan locally update the following settings and run acceptance tests

User Secrets:

- "VhServices:VideoWebUrl": "https://videoweb_ac/"
- "VhServices:VideoWebApiUrl": "https://videoweb_ac/"

Update following configuration under VideoWeb/VideoWeb/appsettings.json

- "AzureAd:RedirectUri": "https://videoweb_ac/home"
- "AzureAd:PostLogoutRedirectUri": "https://videoweb_ac/logout"
- "ZapScan": true

Update following configuration under VideoWeb/VideoWeb.AcceptanceTests/appsettings.json

- "AzureAd:RedirectUri": "https://videoweb_ac/home"
- "AzureAd:PostLogoutRedirectUri": "https://videoweb_ac/logout"
- "ZapConfiguration:ZapScan": true

Commit message:

VIH-6078 Introduce formatting and styling rules to client app (#628)
* apply prettier

* add "prettify" npm task

* add prettier to linting step

Co-authored-by: Ryan Bartram <ryan@bartram.ch>

README.md, after:

# vh-video-web

[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/hmctsreform/VirtualHearings/_apis/build/status/hmcts.vh-video-web?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/hmctsreform/VirtualHearings/_build/latest?definitionId=120&branchName=master)

[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=vh-video-web&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=vh-video-web)

## Updating client code via NSwag

The poject is utilising NSwag to auto-generate client code for the front-end.

### Updating the front end Angular client code

The configuration for the front end TypeScript can be found in 'VideoWeb/VideoWeb/ClientApp/api-ts.nswag'

- Install the NSwag CLI (at least version 12)
- Install Dotnet SDK 2.2
- Ensure the MVC application is running. This can be managed by either:
  - `dotnet run VideoWeb/VideoWeb/VideoWeb.csproj`
  - or via an IDE
- open a terminal at the folder containing the nswag file 'VideoWeb/VideoWeb/ClientApp'
- execute `nswag run`

The latest version of the client code can be found in 'src/app/services/clients/api-client.ts'

## Running code coverage

First ensure you are running a terminal in the VideoWeb directory of this repository and then run the following commands.

```bash
dotnet test --no-build VideoWeb.UnitTests/VideoWeb.UnitTests.csproj /p:CollectCoverage=true /p:CoverletOutputFormat="\"opencover,cobertura,json,lcov\"" /p:CoverletOutput=../Artifacts/Coverage/ /p:MergeWith='../Artifacts/Coverage/coverage.json' /p:Exclude="\"[VideoWeb]VideoWeb.ConfigureServicesExtensions,[VideoWeb]VideoWeb.Program,[VideoWeb]VideoWeb.Startup,[*]VideoWeb.Common.*,[*]VideoWeb.Extensions.*,[*]VideoWeb.Pages.*,[*]VideoWeb.Swagger.*,[*]VideoWeb.Views.*,[*]VideoWeb.UnitTests.*,[*]VideoWeb.Services.*,[*]Testing.Common.*\""

```

## Generate HTML Report

Under the unit test project directory

```bash
dotnet reportgenerator "-reports:../Artifacts/Coverage/coverage.opencover.xml" "-targetDir:../Artifacts/Coverage/Report" -reporttypes:HtmlInline_AzurePipelines
```

## Linting

Verify the source code passes linting. To quickly fix linting issues, execute the following command from the 'ClientApp' directory in a terminal

```bash
ng lint VideoWeb --fix
```

## Styling Client App

Verify the source code passes linting. To quickly identify linting issues, execute the following command from the 'ClientApp' directory in a terminal

```bash
npm install
npm run prettify
```

### Applying Client App Styles

Use the command below to apply prettier after installation packages

```bash
npm run prettify-fix
```

## Running Tests with Code Coverage with VS Code

### Install Coverage Gutters

Install the extension : Coverage Gutters
Id: ryanluker.vscode-coverage-gutters

This extension will load covage files and display in real-time which lines are covered

### Run the Test task

Ensure you have a terminal with the current directory set to the same level as angular workspace.

```bash
npm run test
```

This will execute the angular tests files with the --code-coverage parameter. Once the coverage files have been produced, enable the watch command for Coverage Gutters.

### Branch name git hook will run on pre commit and control the standard for new branch name.

The branch name should start with: feature/VIH-XXXX-branchName (X - is digit).
If git version is less than 2.9 the pre-commit file from the .githooks folder need copy to local .git/hooks folder.
To change git hooks directory to directory under source control run (works only for git version 2.9 or greater) :
\$ git config core.hooksPath .githooks

## Commit message

The commit message will be validated by prepare-commit-msg hook.
The commit message format should start with : 'feature/VIH-XXXX : ' folowing by 8 or more characters description of commit, otherwise the warning message will be presented.

## Run Zap scan locally

To run Zap scan locally update the following settings and run acceptance tests

User Secrets:

- "VhServices:VideoWebUrl": "https://videoweb_ac/"
- "VhServices:VideoWebApiUrl": "https://videoweb_ac/"

Update following configuration under VideoWeb/VideoWeb/appsettings.json

- "AzureAd:RedirectUri": "https://videoweb_ac/home"
- "AzureAd:PostLogoutRedirectUri": "https://videoweb_ac/logout"
- "ZapScan": true

Update following configuration under VideoWeb/VideoWeb.AcceptanceTests/appsettings.json

- "AzureAd:RedirectUri": "https://videoweb_ac/home"
- "AzureAd:PostLogoutRedirectUri": "https://videoweb_ac/logout"
- "ZapConfiguration:ZapScan": true
